Norovirus Outbreaks | Norovirus | CDC
Skip directly to site content
Skip directly to search
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
) or
https://
means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Norovirus Outbreaks
Apr. 22, 2026
Key points
Each year, there are about 2,500 reported norovirus outbreaks in the United States.
Most norovirus outbreaks happen when infected people spread the virus to others through direct contact.
Norovirus outbreaks have been reported in many settings. Some of the most commonly reported outbreak settings are listed below.
When and how outbreaks happen
A norovirus outbreak is defined as:
An occurrence of two or more similar illnesses resulting from a common exposure that is either suspected or laboratory-confirmed to be caused by norovirus.
Most outbreaks of norovirus illness happen when infected people spread the virus to others through direct contact. This can happen by caring for them or sharing food or eating utensils with them. Food, water, and surfaces contaminated with norovirus can also cause outbreaks.
Each year, there are about 2,500 reported norovirus outbreaks in the United States. Norovirus outbreaks occur throughout the year but are most common from November to April.
Current alerts and advisories
CDC works closely with our federal regulatory partners on norovirus outbreak investigations. The following are current food safety advisories or product recalls:
FDA Advises Restaurants and Retailers Not to Serve or Sell and Consumers Not to Eat Recalled Shellfish from a Portion of Hammersley Inlet, WA
FDA Advises Restaurants and Retailers Not to Serve or Sell and Consumers Not to Eat Certain Oysters and Manila Clams from Drayton Harbor, WA
FDA Advises Restaurants and Retailers Not to Serve or Sell and Consumers Not to Eat Certain Oysters from British Columbia, Canada Harvest Area BC 17-20 CLF #1401656
See Also
FDA Alerts & Safety Information
Previous alerts and advisories
2025
Certain Oysters from Louisiana Harvest Area 3
Certain Frozen, Raw, Half-shell Oysters from ROK Designated Area 1 (harvested 1/30)
Certain Frozen, Raw, Half-shell Oysters from ROK Designated Area 1 (harvested 1/12)
Certain Frozen Half-Shell Oysters from Republic of Korea
Designated Area 2
2024
Certain Oysters from a Portion of Hammersley Inlet Growing Area, Washington State
Certain Oysters from British Columbia, Canada Growing Areas in BC 14-8
Certain Oysters from British Columbia, Canada Growing Areas BC 14-8 and BC 14-15
Certain Oysters and Manila Clams from Pickering Passage, Washington
Certain IQF Oysters from Republic of Korea
Certain Frozen, Raw, Half-shell Oysters from Republic of Korea
Recall of Certain Oysters from Westport
2022–2023
Certain Oysters from Bahia Salina in Sonora, Mexico
Certain Oysters from Baja California, Mexico
Certain Fortune Brand Raw Oysters from Nova Scotia
Certain Raw Oysters from Dai One Food Co., Ltd., and Central Fisheries Co., Ltd., Republic of Korea
Keep Reading
Previous Outbreaks
Common settings of norovirus outbreaks
Healthcare facilities
The most commonly reported setting for norovirus outbreaks in the United States and other industrialized countries is healthcare facilities. This includes long-term care facilities and hospitals. Over half of all norovirus outbreaks reported in the United States occur in long-term care facilities.
The virus can be introduced into healthcare facilities by infected patients, staff, visitors, or contaminated foods. Outbreaks in these settings can sometimes last months. Compared with healthy people, norovirus illnesses can be more severe—and occasionally even deadly—in patients in hospitals or long-term care facilities.
Restaurants and at catered events
Foods commonly involved in norovirus outbreaks:
- Leafy greens (such as lettuce)
- Fresh fruits
- Shellfish (such as oysters)
Norovirus is the leading cause of outbreaks from contaminated food in the United States. About 50% of all outbreaks of food-related illness are caused by norovirus. Most of these outbreaks occur in food service settings like restaurants. Infected food workers are frequently the source of outbreaks in food-service settings, often by touching ready-to-eat foods (such as raw fruits and vegetables) with their bare hands before serving them. However, any food served raw or handled after being cooked can get contaminated with norovirus.
Norovirus outbreaks can also occur from food that is contaminated at the source or on the farm. This can include oysters harvested from contaminated water, or fruit and vegetables sprayed with contaminated water in the field.
Norovirus Fact Sheet for Food Workers
Food workers can help prevent the spread of norovirus by making sure food doesn't get contaminated.
May 8, 2024
Schools and childcare centers
Norovirus outbreaks also frequently occur in schools, childcare centers, colleges, and universities. Norovirus outbreaks on school and university campuses have even led to campus closures. Close quarters, shared spaces, and high-touch surfaces make it easy for norovirus to spread in schools.
Cruise ships
Norovirus is the most frequent (over 90%) cause of outbreaks of diarrheal disease on cruise ships. These outbreaks often get media attention, which is why some people call norovirus the "cruise ship virus." However, norovirus outbreaks on cruise ships account for only a small percentage (1%) of all reported norovirus outbreaks.
Norovirus can be especially challenging to control on cruise ships because of the close living quarters, shared dining areas, and rapid turnover of passengers. When the ship docks, norovirus can be brought on board in contaminated food or water; or by passengers who were infected while ashore. Repeated outbreaks on consecutive cruises may also result from infected crew or environmental contamination. This is because norovirus can persist on surfaces for days or weeks and is resistant to many common disinfectants.
For Public Health
Acute Gastroenteritis (AGE) on Cruise Ships, 2006-2019
What CDC and partners do to respond
Responding to Norovirus Outbreaks
Read about what CDC, partners, and states do to investigate and respond to norovirus outbreaks.
May 1, 2024
Norovirus Reporting and Surveillance
Identify surveillance and reporting systems for norovirus and different roles in reporting.
Jan 15, 2026
Resources
Symptoms of Norovirus
How to Prevent Norovirus
BEAM (Bacteria, Enterics, Ameba, and Mycotics) Dashboard
On This Page
When and how outbreaks happen
Current alerts and advisories
Previous alerts and advisories
Common settings of norovirus outbreaks
What CDC and partners do to respond
Resources
Apr. 22, 2026
Sources
Print
Share
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Syndicate
Content Source:
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
;
Division of Viral Diseases
Norovirus
Norovirus is the leading cause of vomiting and diarrhea, and foodborne illness in the United States. Always wash your hands and handle food well.
View All
For Everyone
About
Outbreaks
How It Spreads
Prevention
Norovirus Statistics
Communication Resources
Public Health
Lab Testing
Reporting & Surveillance
Sign up for Email Updates