Food Safety Basics | Food Safety | CDC
Skip directly to site content
Skip directly to search
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
) or
https://
means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Food Safety Basics
Mar. 9, 2026
At a glance
Food can sometimes contain harmful germs, such as
Salmonella
and norovirus, that can make you sick.
If you eat food containing germs, you can get a foodborne illness (sometimes called food poisoning).
Some foods are more likely to contain germs, including raw flour and dough, raw chicken, and raw milk.
"Food safety" refers to steps you and others can take to prevent foodborne illness.
Overview
Foods can sometimes be contaminated with germs that can make you sick. You may swallow these germs when:
Eating foods that aren't cooked properly
Germs from food spread to your hands, surfaces, or other foods (called cross-contamination)
Food is not refrigerated properly after cooking
There are many different types of foodborne germs that can cause illness, hospitalization, and even death. Some examples include
Salmonella,
norovirus, and
Campylobacter.
What is food safety?
Food safety
refers to practices that can reduce your risk of getting food poisoning.
Signs and symptoms
Signs and symptoms of food poisoning depend on the type of germ you swallowed. The most common symptoms include diarrhea, stomach pain or cramps, nausea, vomiting, and fever.
Keep Reading
Food Poisoning Symptoms
Riskier foods
Some foods are more likely to contain harmful germs, including:
Raw or undercooked poultry, meat, seafood, or eggs
Raw or undercooked sprouts
Unwashed fruits and vegetables
Cut melon
Unpasteurized milk, juice, cider, or soft cheese
Raw dough or raw batter made with uncooked flour
Keep Reading
Safer Food Choices
People at risk
Anyone can get food poisoning, but certain groups of people are more likely to get very sick from foodborne germs:
People 65 and older
Children under 5 years old
People with weakened immune systems
Pregnant women
Keep Reading
People at Increased Risk for Food Poisoning
Reducing risk
The best ways to avoid food poisoning include:
Washing your hands and surfaces often, including rinsing fresh fruits and vegetables.
Separating riskier foods, like raw meat and eggs, from other foods to avoid cross-contamination.
Cooking food to the right temperature to kill germs.
Refrigerating food promptly after cooking and thawing frozen food safely (not on the counter).
Choosing safer foods, especially if you're more likely to get sick from foodborne germs.
Keep Reading
Preventing Food Poisoning
Quick facts
CDC estimates that each year 48 million people get sick from a foodborne illness, 128,000 are hospitalized, and 3,000 die.
Keep Reading
Facts About Food Poisoning
What CDC is doing
CDC helps make food safer by working with partners to track and investigate foodborne illness, identify sources of illness, and determine the best ways to prevent foodborne illness.
Keep Reading
What CDC is Doing
Resources
Current Outbreaks
Current foodborne outbreak investigations and selected outbreak notices.
FoodSafety.gov
On This Page
Overview
Signs and symptoms
Riskier foods
People at risk
Reducing risk
Quick facts
What CDC is doing
Resources
Mar. 9, 2026
Sources
Print
Share
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Syndicate
Content Source:
National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)
Food Safety
Food can sometimes contain germs that can make you sick. Food safety refers to practices that can reduce your risk of getting food poisoning.
View All
For Everyone
Basics
Symptoms
Risk Factors
Preventing Food Poisoning
Facts and Stats
Educational Materials and Videos
Patient Stories
Health Care Providers
Clinical Overview
Public Health
Foodborne Illness Burden
Foodborne Illness Sources
Sign up for Email Updates