Major Product Recalls | FDA
Skip to main content
Skip to FDA Search
Skip to in this section menu
Skip to footer links
Home
Safety
Recalls, Market Withdrawals, & Safety Alerts
Major Product Recalls
Recalls, Market Withdrawals, & Safety Alerts
In this section
Recalls with significant downstream effects—typically involving five or more related events—are posted to the Major Recalls page. This page provides a centralized, easy-to-navigate overview of current recall information to help consumers, healthcare professionals, and industry representatives quickly find what they need to stay informed and take appropriate action.
NEWLY ADDED!
2026 Recalls of Food Products Associated with Fresh Jalapeños from Sinaloa, Mexico and distributed by Coast Citrus Distributors due to the Potential Risk of Salmonella
2026 Recalls of Food Products Associated with Powdered Milk from California Dairies Inc. due to a Potential Salmonella Risk
2025 Recalls of Prepared Pasta Meals (Frozen and Ready-To-Eat) Due to Potential Listeria monocytogenes Contamination
2025 Recalls of Frozen Shrimp Products Associated with Cesium-137 Contamination from PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati due to Potential Safety Concerns
2025 Recalls of Cucumbers Associated with Bedner Growers Inc., Boynton Beach, Florida, due to the Potential Risk of Salmonella contamination
2024 Recalls of Food Products Associated with American/Slicer Whole Cucumbers grown by Agrotato, S.A. de C.V. in Sonora, Mexico due to the Potential Risk of Salmonella
2024 Recalls of Food Products Associated with Dairy Products from Rizo Lopez Foods, Inc. due to the Potential Risk of Listeria monocytogenes
2023 Recalls of Food Products Associated with Cantaloupes due to the Potential Risk of Salmonella
2022 Recalls of Food Products Associated with Peanut Butter from J.M. Smucker Company due to the Potential Risk of Salmonella
Recalls of Food Products Associated with Onions from ProSource Produce LLC and Keeler Family Farms due to the Potential Risk of Salmonella
Recalls of Food Products Associated with Onions from Thomson International, Inc. due to the Potential Risk of Salmonella
Recalls of Vegetable Products Associated with Mann Packing Co., Inc. due to the Potential Risk of Listeria monocytogenes
Recalls associated with Almark's recall of hard-boiled egg products
Previous Major Product Recalls (available from FDA archive):
McCain Foods Product Recalls
Vegetable/Produce Recalls Associated with Mann Packing (Listeria monocytogenes)
DKH Cheese Recalls (Listeria monocytogenes contamination)
2016 Frozen vegetable products (Listeria monocytogenes)
Industry Resources for Recalls
How Do I Report a Complaint?
Consumer Complaint Coordinators
Content current as of:
08/21/2026
Feedback
Back to
Top