Outbreak Investigation of Shiga Toxin-producing E. coli & Salmonella: Sprouts (August 2026) | FDA
Skip to main content
Skip to FDA Search
Skip to in this section menu
Skip to footer links
Home
Food
Recalls, Outbreaks & Emergencies
Outbreaks of Foodborne Illness
Outbreak Investigation of Shiga Toxin-producing E. coli & Salmonella: Sprouts (August 2026)
Outbreaks of Foodborne Illness
In this section
Product (Updated 9/15/2026)
NEW: The seed supplier to Everything Sprouts, LLC agreed to initiate a recall of the alfalfa seed lot linked to this outbreak. This recalled seed lot was sold directly to sprout growers and wholesale distributors and may have been sold at the retail level. Sprout growers and wholesale distributors who received the recalled seed lot have been contacted directly by the common seed supplier.
On August 22, 2026, Everything Sprouts, LLC
recalled
alfalfa sprouts grown by Everything Sprouts and sold under the Calco and Everything Sprouts brands. These recalled sprouts are packaged in 5-oz plastic containers with lot numbers 222, 223, 225, 226, and 230. These same Alfalfa sprouts were also used in Everything Sprouts Crunchy Protein Sprout Mix 5-oz cups, LOT# 222, 223, 226, 230 and the Zesty Garlic Mix cups, LOT# 222, 223, 225, 226, and 230. On August 28, 2026, Everything Sprouts, LLC
expanded the recall
to include certain lots of Robust Radish Sprout Mix. The recalled Robust Radish Sprout Mix was sold in 5-oz cups, LOT# 223, 226, 230, & 233.
Symptoms of Shiga toxin-producing
E. coli
(STEC) infection
Symptoms begin anywhere from a few days after consuming contaminated food or up to nine days later. Symptoms include severe stomach cramps, diarrhea, fever, nausea, and/or vomiting.
The severity or presence of certain symptoms may depend on the type of pathogenic
E. coli
causing the infection. Some infections can cause severe bloody diarrhea and lead to life-threatening conditions, such as a type of kidney failure called hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), or the development of high blood pressure, chronic kidney disease, and neurologic problems.
Symptoms of
Salmonella
infection
Illness usually occurs within 12 to 72 hours after eating food that is contaminated with
Salmonella
, and the symptoms usually last four to seven days. Symptoms include diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps. Children younger than five, the elderly, and people with weakened immune systems are more likely to have severe infections.
Stores affected (updated 9/15/2026)
Recalled seed lot linked to this outbreak was shipped to sprout growers and wholesale distributors in the following U.S. states and Puerto Rico: California, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Utah. The recalled seed lot was also distributed internationally to Canada, Mexico, Tahiti, and Venezuela.
Recalled Robust Radish Mix was distributed by Everything Sprouts from August 13, 2026, to August 26, 2026, to wholesale distributors and to grocery stores located in MN and WI. This includes Robust Radish Mix, 5oz, LOT# 223, 226, 230, & 233.
Recalled alfalfa sprouts were distributed by Everything Sprouts from May 27, 2026, to August 21, 2026, to wholesale distributors and to grocery stores in MN and WI. FDA’s traceback investigation also shows that alfalfa sprouts from Everything Sprouts were also distributed to restaurants in MN and WI. Recalled products distributed to restaurants should no longer be available for sale.
FDA is working to determine if the recalled product was further distributed to other states. This advisory will be updated as needed.
Status
Ongoing
Recommendations
Do not eat, sell, or serve recalled sprouts.
Check your refrigerators and freezers for recalled seeds or sprouts and throw them away or return the product to the place of purchase. If you froze a product without the original packaging and can’t tell if it’s part of the affected sprouts, throw it away.
Consumers, restaurants, retailers, sprout growers, and foodservice customers who purchased or received recalled seeds or sprouts, including wholesale products, should carefully clean and sanitize any surfaces or containers that they touched. Follow
FDA’s safe handling and cleaning advice
to reduce the risk of cross-contamination.
Retailers that received recalled seeds or sprouts and repackaged them for individual sale should not sell them and should remove the products from the market.
Consult your health care provider immediately if you ate recalled sprouts and have any symptoms that resemble an STEC or
Salmonella
infection.
Current Update
September 15, 2026
The seed supplier of Everything Sprouts, LLC agreed to initiate a recall of the alfalfa seed lot linked to this outbreak. This is the same seed lot used to grow alfalfa sprouts recalled by Everything Sprouts, LLC. This seed lot was sold directly to sprout growers and wholesale distributors in Puerto Rico and the U.S. It was also shipped internationally to Canada, Mexico, Tahiti, and Venezuela. If you are a sprout grower or distributor that received the recalled alfalfa seed lot, do not use or distribute this seed or any sprouts grown from that seed and throw it away. Sprouts grown from the recalled alfalfa seed lot should have been recalled and should no longer be available for sale. If you are unsure if your seed lot is part of the recall, contact your seed supplier.
August 31, 2026
On August 28, 2026, Everything Sprouts, LLC
expanded their recall
to include certain lots of Robust Radish Sprout Mix because it has the potential for cross-contamination with Shiga toxin-producing
E. coli
(STEC) or
Salmonella
from the recalled alfalfa sprouts. The recalled Robust Radish Sprout Mix was sold in 5-oz cups, LOT# 223, 226, 230, & 233.
Epidemiologic and traceback evidence show that alfalfa sprouts grown by Everything Sprouts, LLC of Minneapolis, MN, is one of the sources of illnesses in this outbreak. While alfalfa sprouts grown by Everything Sprouts, LLC are a source of illnesses in this outbreak, these sprouts do not explain all the illnesses.
FDA’s traceback investigation has identified at least one additional sprout grower who received and used the same lot of alfalfa sprout seeds under investigation in this outbreak from a common seed supplier. The common seed supplier has instructed its customers not to use, grow, sell, transfer, or redistribute the implicated seed lot, and to return or dispose of any remaining seed.
FDA recommended that the common seed supplier voluntarily recall the implicated lot of alfalfa seeds and contact their downstream customers to initiate recalls of sprouts grown from the implicated seed lot. At this time, the common seed supplier has not responded to FDA's recall recommendation, has not sent a recall notice to downstream customers, and has not instructed the customers who received the implicated alfalfa sprout seed lot to initiate recalls.
FDA is continuing to investigate contamination of the implicated alfalfa sprout seed, as well as additional contributing factors or practices of sprout growers related to this outbreak. This advisory will be updated with new information as it becomes available.
Case Count Map Provided by CDC
Product Distribution Map
Distribution of recalled products has been confirmed in the states shown below; however, the products may have been distributed further, reaching additional states. The
Map was updated on 9/15/2026
to include Puerto Rico and the following new states: CA, FL, HI, IL, MA, MO, MT, NY, OH, OR, PA, TN, SC, TX, and UT.
Case Counts
Total Illnesses: 55
Hospitalizations: 4
Deaths: 0
Last Illness Onset: August 8, 2026
States with Cases: FL, IN, IA, KS, MI, MN, NH, NY, NC, ND, PA, SC, SD, WA, and WI
Product Distribution*:  CA, FL, HI, IL, MA, MN, MO, MT, NY, OH, OR, PA, TN, SC, TX, UT, WI, and Puerto Rico
*Distribution has been confirmed for states listed, but product could have been distributed further, reaching additional states
Useful Links
CDC Outbreak Advisory
Everything Sprouts Recall
Everything Sprouts Expanded Recall
Food Safety Tips for Retailers and Consumers During an Outbreak
Food Safety Resources for Produce Shippers and Carriers During a Foodborne Illness Outbreak
What is
Salmonella
?
What is
E. coli
?
Who to Contact
International Distribution
The recalled alfalfa seed lot was distributed to Canada, Mexico, Tahiti, and Venezuela.
Product Images
Previous Updates
August 24, 2026
On August 22, 2026, Everything Sprouts, LLC initiated a
recall
for certain alfalfa sprouts sold under the Calco and Everything Sprouts brands. Recalled sprouts are packaged in 5-oz plastic containers with lot numbers 222, 223, 225, 226, and 230. These same alfalfa sprouts were also used in Everything Sprouts Crunchy Protein Sprout Mix 5-oz cups, LOT# 222, 223, 226, 230 and the Zesty Garlic Mix cups, LOT# 222, 223, 225, 226, and 230.
Consumers, restaurants, and retailers should not eat, sell, or serve recalled sprouts.
August 21, 2026
The FDA and CDC, in collaboration with state and local partners, are investigating illnesses in a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing
E. coli
(multiple serotypes include: O26:H11, O103:H25, O168:H8) and
Salmonella
Agona infections. Epidemiologic and traceback data show that alfalfa sprouts distributed by Everything Sprouts, LLC of Minneapolis, MN may be contaminated with multiple pathogens and have been identified as a source of illnesses in this outbreak.
Based on epidemiological information collected by CDC and state partners, a total of 55 people infected with multiple strains of Shiga toxin-producing
E. coli
and one strain of
Salmonella
have been reported from 15 states. Some people were infected with more than one outbreak strain. Forty-six people were infected with
E. coli
, 7 people were infected with
Salmonella
, and 2 people were infected with both
Salmonella
and
E. coli
.
Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 31, 2026, to August 8, 2026. State and local public health officials are interviewing people about the foods they ate in the week before they got sick. Of the 34 people interviewed, 26 (76%) reported eating alfalfa sprouts. There have been 4 hospitalizations, and no deaths have been reported.
Traceback evidence collected from the restaurants and grocery stores identified alfalfa sprouts distributed by Everything Sprouts, LLC as a source of illness in this outbreak.
On August 19, 2026, FDA initiated an inspection and sample collection at Everything Sprouts, LLC. This investigation is ongoing to determine the source of contamination and whether additional products or firms are linked to illnesses.
FDA is working with Everything Sprouts and has recommended they conduct a recall. Consumers and retailers should not eat, serve, or sell alfalfa sprouts sold under the Calco and Everything Sprouts brands.
Who to Contact?
Consumers who have symptoms
should contact their health care provider to report their symptoms and receive care.
To report a complaint or adverse event (illness or serious allergic reaction),
visit
Industry and Consumer Assistance
.
Follow us on X
(formerly Twitter)
Content current as of:
09/15/2026
Regulated Product(s)
Food & Beverages
Feedback
Back to
Top