Food Allergies | FDA
Skip to main content
Skip to FDA Search
Skip to in this section menu
Skip to footer links
Home
Food
Nutrition, Food Labeling, and Critical Foods
Food Allergies
Nutrition, Food Labeling, and Critical Foods
In this section
Image
What’s New
On February, 18-20 2026, the FDA held the
Virtual Public Meeting and Listening Session on Food Allergen Thresholds and Their Potential Applications
On January 6, 2025, the FDA announced the availability of:
Final Guidance for Industry: Questions and Answers Regarding Food Allergens, Including the Food Allergen Labeling Requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Edition 5)
. This final guidance will replace both the draft and final guidance documents on food allergen labeling that were issued in November 2022. The new guidance has been updated based on comments submitted to the draft guidance and consists of questions and answers about food allergen labeling requirements, including the labeling of tree nuts, sesame, milk, eggs, incidental additives, highly refined oils, dietary supplement products, and certain specific packing and labeling situations, such as individual units within a multiunit package.
Final Guidance for FDA Staff and Interested Parties: Evaluating the Public Health Importance of Food Allergens Other Than the Major Food Allergens Listed in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
. The final guidance outlines the approach the FDA generally intends to take when evaluating the public health importance of food allergens that are not one of the nine major food allergens identified by law in the U.S. The major food allergens are milk, eggs, fish, Crustacean shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, soybeans, and sesame.
Food allergies and other types of food hypersensitivities affect millions of Americans and their families. Food allergies occur when the body's immune system reacts to certain proteins in food. Food allergic reactions vary in severity from mild symptoms involving hives and lip swelling to severe, life-threatening symptoms, often called anaphylaxis, that may involve fatal respiratory problems and shock. While promising prevention and therapeutic strategies are being developed, food allergies currently cannot be cured. Early recognition and learning how to manage food allergies, including which foods to avoid, are important measures to prevent serious health consequences.
To protect those with food allergies and other food hypersensitivities, the FDA enforces regulations requiring companies to list ingredients on packaged foods and beverages. For certain foods or substances that cause allergies or other hypersensitivity reactions, there are more specific labeling requirements.
The FDA provides guidance to the food industry, consumers, and other stakeholders on best ways to assess and manage allergen hazards in food. The FDA also conducts inspections and sampling to check that major food allergens are properly labeled on products and to determine whether food facilities implement controls to prevent allergen cross-contact (the inadvertent introduction of a major food allergen into a product) and labeling controls to prevent undeclared allergens during manufacturing and packaging. When problems are found, the FDA works with firms to recall products and provide public notification to immediately alert consumers. In addition, the FDA has the authority to seize and remove violative products from the marketplace or refuse entry of imported products.
Major Food Allergens
Congress passed the
Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act of 2004
(FALCPA). This law identified eight foods as major food allergens: milk, eggs, fish, Crustacean shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, and soybeans.
On April 23, 2021, the Food Allergy Safety, Treatment, Education, and Research (FASTER) Act was signed into law, declaring sesame as the 9th major food allergen recognized by the United States. The change was effective on January 1, 2023. All FDA requirements applicable to major food allergens, including labeling and manufacturing requirements, apply to sesame as of January 1, 2023. Products already in interstate commerce—for example, products that are on retail shelves, before January 1, 2023—do not need to be removed from the marketplace or relabeled. So, consumers should be aware that some products may not carry allergen labeling for sesame right away. During the transition period, the FDA recommends consumers check with the manufacturer or distributor identified on the food product if not sure whether a food product contains, or potentially contains, sesame, Watch our
video for more information about the FASTER Act
. The video includes basic information about the FASTER Act and helps answer frequently asked questions the FDA has received from the food industry and other stakeholders.
At the time of FALCPA’s passage, the eight major allergens accounted for 90 percent of food allergies and serious allergic reactions in the U.S. FALCPA requires that foods or ingredients that contain a "major food allergen" be specifically labeled with the name of the allergen source. Congress passed this law to make it easier for consumers who are allergic to foods and their caregivers to identify and avoid foods that contain major food allergens. The FDA enforces the provisions of this law in most packaged food products. This includes dietary supplements but does not include meat, poultry, and egg products (which are regulated by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture
); alcoholic beverages subject to
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
labeling regulations; raw agricultural commodities; highly refined oils; drugs; cosmetics; and most foods sold at retail or food service establishments that are not pre-packaged with a label.
At this time, the FDA has not established a threshold level for any allergens. A threshold is a value below which it is unlikely that a food allergic individual would experience an adverse effect.
Food Labels and Allergens
People with food allergies should read labels and avoid the foods they are allergic to. The law requires that food labels identify the food source of all major food allergens used to make the food. This requirement is met if the common or usual name of an ingredient already identifies that allergen's food source name (for example, buttermilk). The law also requires that the type of tree nut (for example, almonds, pecans, walnuts), and the species of fish (for example, bass, flounder, cod) and Crustacean shellfish (for example, crab, lobster, shrimp) to be declared.  The allergen's food source must be declared at least once on the food label in one of two ways.
The name of the food source of a major food allergen must appear:
In parentheses following the name of the ingredient.
Examples: “lecithin (soy),” “flour (wheat),” and “whey (milk)”
— OR —
Immediately after or next to the list of ingredients in a “contains” statement.
Example: “Contains wheat, milk, and soy.”
FALCPA's labeling requirements extend to retail and food-service establishments that package, label, and offer products for human consumption. However, FALCPA's labeling requirements do not apply to foods that are placed in a wrapper or container (such as paper or a box for a sandwich) following a customer’s order at the point of purchase.
Consumers may also see advisory statements such as “may contain [allergen] or “produced in a facility that also uses [allergen].” Such statements are not required by law and can be used to address unavoidable “cross-contact,” only if manufacturers have incorporated good manufacturing processes in their facility and have taken every precaution to avoid cross-contact that can occur when multiple foods with different allergen profiles are produced in the same facility using shared equipment or on the same production line, as the result of ineffective cleaning, or from the generation of dust or aerosols containing an allergen.
FDA guidance and regulations for the food industry states that advisory statements should not be used as a substitute for adhering to current good manufacturing practices and must be truthful and not misleading.
Frequently Asked Questions: Food Allergen Labeling Guidance for Industry
For questions and answers regarding the updates to the latest guidance, visit
Frequently Asked Questions: Food Allergen Labeling Guidance for Industry
.
Other Allergens or Allergenic Substances
More than 160 foods have been identified to cause food allergies in sensitive individuals. There are also several food ingredients that cause nonallergic hypersensitivity reactions in sensitive individuals that require specific labeling. For example, in addition to the major food allergens identified by law, the FDA monitors the food supply to determine if other allergens, food ingredients, or food additives pose a significant health risk and acts accordingly. Gluten, certain additives (for example, yellow 5, carmine, sulfites), and other food allergens for which new science has emerged, are examples of other substances the FDA monitors and, in some cases, requires specific labeling for.
On January 6, 2025, the FDA issued a final guidance for FDA staff and interested parties titled
Guidance for FDA Staff and Interested Parties: Evaluating the Public Health Importance of Food Allergens Other Than the Major Food Allergens Listed in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
. The guidance outlines the approach the FDA generally intends to take when evaluating the public health importance of food allergens that are not one of the major food allergens identified by law in the U.S. This guidance is part of the FDA’s efforts to evaluate emerging evidence about non-listed food allergens in a consistent and transparent manner to inform potential future actions.
Gluten
Gluten
describes a group of proteins found in certain grains (for example, wheat, barley, and rye). In people with celiac disease, foods that contain gluten trigger an immune response that attacks and damages the lining of the small intestine. Such damage may not only limit the ability of celiac disease patients to absorb nutrients, leading to problems such as iron deficiency anemia, osteoporosis, and malnutrition, but it puts them at increased risk for potentially serious health problems, including intestinal cancers and autoimmune diseases such as diabetes.
Protecting the public health of consumers with food allergies and conditions like celiac disease is a high priority for the FDA. On August 2, 2013, the FDA issued a final rule defining “gluten-free” for food labeling, which helps consumers, especially those living with celiac disease, be confident that items labeled “gluten-free” meet a defined standard for gluten content. On August 12, 2020, the FDA issued a
final rule
to establish compliance requirements for fermented and hydrolyzed foods, or foods that contain fermented or hydrolyzed ingredients, bearing the “gluten-free” claim. Since publishing the gluten-free labeling regulations and guidances, we continue to conduct outreach to food manufacturers to help ensure compliance with the requirements that apply to products labeled as “gluten-free.”
Color and Food Additives
Some individuals may have hypersensitivity reactions to a
color additive
. For example, FD&C Yellow No. 5, widely found in beverages, desserts, processed vegetables, drugs, makeup, and other products, may cause symptoms such as itching and hives in some people. The FDA requires all products containing FD&C Yellow No. 5 to identify it on their labels so consumers who are sensitive to the dye can avoid it. Color additives made from cochineal extract and carmine, which are derived from insects, have been identified as allergenic substances that must be declared on the label of all food and cosmetic products. Various sulfiting agents, including sodium bisulfite, are allowed as food ingredients. But due in part to adverse reactions to them, such as asthma in sensitive individuals, they must be declared on food labels when present in food and the concentration in the food is ≥10 parts per million total sulfites.
FDA Activities
The FDA takes several measures to make sure that consumers are protected from ingredients and foods they may be allergic to. These include establishing regulatory requirements, providing industry guidance, conducting surveillance, and taking regulatory actions when appropriate.
Guidance Documents and FDA Regulations
The FDA issues
guidance documents
to provide industry with its current thinking about various issues. Many FDA guidance documents contain information about allergens. Certain food safety regulations also contain provisions related to allergens and other ingredients that may cause sensitivities.
Inspections
The FDA’s “Current Good Manufacturing Practice, Hazard Analysis, and Risk-Based Preventive Controls for Human Food” rule (CGMP & PC rule, 21 CFR part 117) establishes requirements applicable to establishments that manufacture, process, pack, or hold human food. The CGMP & PC rule includes requirements for allergen preventive controls to prevent allergen cross-contact in manufacturing and packaging and to prevent undeclared allergens. For example, the FDA requires facilities to put written procedures in place to control allergen cross-contact between products that contain allergens and those that are not supposed to contain them and to ensure that the products are accurately labeled with respect to allergens. The FDA inspects food manufacturers according to the applicable requirements of 21 CFR part 117 to determine whether allergen cross-contact has been minimized or prevented and whether a food facility has appropriate controls for allergen labeling.
Monitoring
The FDA monitors reports of food allergic reactions and reports related to ingredients and food hypersensitivities (including gluten) that come into the FDA
Consumer Complaint System
. The FDA looks at every complaint to determine the appropriate course of action. Based on an evaluation of the potential safety concern, the FDA may take regulatory action(s) to improve product safety and protect the public health, communicate new safety information to the public, or, in certain cases, remove a product from the market.
The FDA also receives reports from industry regarding undeclared allergens through the
Reportable Food Registry
(RFR). For example, from September 2009 to September 2014, about one-third of foods reported to the FDA through the RFR as serious health risks involved undeclared allergens. Of the major food allergens, milk represents the most common cause of recalls due to undeclared allergens. The five food types most often involved in food allergen recalls were bakery products, snack foods, candy, dairy products, and dressings (such as salad dressings, sauces, and gravies). Within the candy category, the FDA has received many reports of undeclared milk in dark chocolate products, highlighting this food type as a higher risk product for consumers allergic to milk.
Testing
The FDA conducts periodic surveys and sampling assignments to gather information about specific foods. For example, in 2013 and 2014, the FDA conducted a
survey
to estimate the prevalence of undeclared milk allergen in dark chocolate products. A
second survey
of samples collected in 2018 and 2019 was conducted to understand the extent to which dark chocolate bars and dark chocolate chips labeled as “dairy free” contained levels of milk that would be potentially hazardous to consumers with milk allergies. In 2022 and 2023 a
survey
was conducted on dark chocolate and chocolate-containing retail products labeled as “dairy free” to test for the presence of unintended milk. In 2015 and 2016, the FDA conducted sampling of a variety of foods to determine compliance with “
gluten-free
” labeling requirements.
To test for allergens in foods, the FDA uses enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) testing, through which antibodies attach to various allergens. The FDA tests food samples using two different types of ELISA kits before confirming the results. Other allergen testing methodologies include the DNA-based polymerase chain reaction and mass spectrometry. The FDA has developed the
xMAP
food allergen detection assay that can simultaneously detect 16 allergens, including sesame, in a single analysis, with a design that allows for expansion to target additional food allergens. These advances will enhance FDA’s ability to monitor the food supply for undeclared allergens and take action when they are found.
Regulatory Action
The FDA can carry out a number of regulatory actions if a food label lacks required allergen information for a food ingredient, if a food product is found to inadvertently contain a food allergen due to cross-contact, or if a food product does not qualify to be labeled as “gluten-free.” The FDA considers such products misbranded or adulterated, depending on the circumstances, and subject to enforcement actions such as recalls, import refusal, and seizure. The agency may also issue warning letters to facilities making such foods, or may place foods imported from other countries on
import alert
for these violations. When there is a problem that justifies a recall, firms generally recall such food products from the marketplace voluntarily. Consumers can learn what products have been
recalled
recently on the FDA's website, or by
signing up
to receive Recalls, Market Withdrawals and Safety Alerts emails.
What to Do If Symptoms of an Allergic Reaction Occur
Symptoms of food allergies typically appear from within a few minutes to a few hours after a person has eaten the food to which he or she is allergic. A severe, life-threatening allergic reaction is called anaphylaxis.
Symptoms of allergic reactions can include:
Hives
Flushed skin or rash
Tingling or itchy sensation in the mouth
Face, tongue, or lip swelling
Vomiting and/or diarrhea
Abdominal cramps
Coughing or wheezing
Dizziness and/or lightheadedness
Swelling of the throat and vocal cords
Difficulty breathing
Loss of consciousness
People with a known food allergy who begin experiencing any of these symptoms should stop eating the food immediately, evaluate the need to use emergency medication (such as epinephrine) and seek medical attention. Some of these symptoms are not always due to a food allergen. So, it is important to seek proper care and diagnosis from a healthcare provider to determine if the symptoms or reaction experienced was due to a food allergen.
Reporting Adverse Reactions and Labeling Concerns
Consumers who have symptoms
should contact their health care provider to report their symptoms and receive care.
To report a complaint or adverse event (illness or serious allergic reaction), visit
Industry and Consumer Assistance
.
Reports submitted to the FDA should include as much information as possible:
Who is reporting the incident and who was affected? Please provide names, addresses, and phone numbers.
The name and address of the place where the product was purchased
A clear description of the reaction, if experienced, including:
Date the reaction occurred.
All symptoms experienced.
How long after you ate or drank the product that the reaction occurred.
Medications used to treat symptoms.
Whether the reaction required further medical care, and if so, what kind. Please provide contact information for the doctor or hospital.
A complete description of the product, including:
Date of purchase.
Any codes or identifying marks on the label or container, such as lot number, expiration date, and UPC code.
Photos of the product, label, ingredient statement, and lot code.
Contact Us
Requests for meetings and speaking engagements can be submitted via the forms below.
Meeting Request Form
Speaker Request Form
Additional Resources
From the FDA
Safety Alerts
Warning Letters
The Current Food Allergen Landscape
FDA Voices: FDA Steps Up Efforts to Protect Consumers from Food Allergens
Have Food Allergies? Read the Label
Allergies to a Legume Called Lupin: What You Need to Know
Allergic to Milk? Some Dark Chocolate Labeled as Dairy-Free May Still Contain Milk
Survey of Milk in Dark Chocolate Products
Gluten-Free Means What it Says
Food Allergies: What You Need to Know
Food Facts for Consumers: FASTER Act
FASTER Act Social Media Toolkit
Allergic to Sesame? Food Labels Now Must List Sesame as an Allergen
From Other Federal Agencies
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases - Food Allergy
CDC Healthy Schools - Food Allergies
USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service - Food Allergies: The “Big 9”
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau - Major Food Allergen Labeling for Wines, Distilled Spirits, and Malt Beverages
Content current as of:
03/11/2026
Feedback
Back to
Top